# Minecraft Bingo Resource Pack
Resource Pack for [Minecraft Bingo](https://github.com/170yt/Minecraft-Bingo) that adds icons to the scoreboard and the bingo card.

## Installation
The resource pack can be configured on the server or installed on the client.
> Note: The mappings file is required to display the icons (see [Mappings](#Mappings)).

### Server
If you are setting up a server for Minecraft Bingo, I recommend adding the resource pack to the `server.properties` file.
The server will then prompt the players to download the resource pack when they join the server.
I uploaded the resource pack to [mc-packs.net](https://download.mc-packs.net/pack/4d20d1635481eb40bf4ce0d7726468457374c917.zip).
To use it, add the following lines to the `server.properties` file:
```
resource-pack=https://download.mc-packs.net/pack/4d20d1635481eb40bf4ce0d7726468457374c917.zip
resource-pack-sha1=4d20d1635481eb40bf4ce0d7726468457374c917
```
> Tip: You can use the [Server Resourcepack Checker Mod](https://modrinth.com/mod/server-resource-pack-checker) on your client to skip loading the resource pack if it is already installed.

### Client
1. Download the resource pack from the [Releases](https://github.com/170yt/Minecraft-Bingo-Resource-Pack/releases) section.
2. Move the downloaded file to the `resourcepacks` folder in your Minecraft directory.
3. Activate the resource pack in the game.

### Mappings
In order for the Minecraft Bingo Mod to display the icons, you need to provide a file with the mappings between item names and icons.
The file must be named `item_icon_mappings.json` and must be placed in the `config/bingo` directory.
The file can be found in the [Releases](https://github.com/170yt/Minecraft-Bingo-Resource-Pack/releases) section.
If the file is not provided, all icons will be disabled.

## Generator
The resource pack was mostly generated using a few python scripts to generate the repeating patterns and to map the item names to the icons.
The scripts can be found in the `generator` directory.

> Note: The scripts are not perfect and may need some manual adjustments.

The scripts need at least the following files/folders in the `input` directory:
```
input
├───advancement
│   ├───adventure
│   ├───end
│   ├───husbandry
│   ├───nether
│   └───story
├───assets
│   └───minecraft
│       └───items
├───icon-exports-x16
├───icon-exports-x16-advancements
└───pack.png
```
- The `advancement` folder is copied from the minecraft game files.
- The `assets` folder is copied from the minecraft game files.
- The `icon-exports-x16` folder contains the icons of all items. The folder is generated by the [Icon Exporter Mod](https://modrinth.com/mod/icon-exporter). I used the 16x16 icons. (I manually added textures for the ender_dragon_spawn_egg and the wither_spawn_egg)
- The `icon-exports-x16-advancements` folder is basically the same as the `icon-exports-x16` folder but I used a texture pack that adds the advancement background to all items used in advancements. This way I could generate icons for advancements. In the next step I filtered out all icons that are not used in advancements (see the script).
- The `pack.png` file is the icon of the resource pack.

The scripts generate the following files/folders in the `output` directory:
- `Bingo Icons` - The resource pack
- `item_icon_mappings.json` - The mappings between item names and icons
